Blue/green deployments on BA (#5771)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/biganimal/release/using_cluster/07_blue_green.mdx

---
title: "Blue/green deployments on EDB Postgres AI Cloud Service"
navTitle: "Blue/green deployments"
description: "A guide to performing blue/green deployments on EDB Postgres AI Cloud Service."
deepToC: true
---

## Blue/green deployments

> Blue/green deployment is a set of practices that, when applied to a live production system, results in a zero-downtime and low-risk release of software updates[cite O'reilly here Continuous Delivery: Reliable Software Releases Through Build, Test, and Deployment Automation]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blue/green deployment is a set of practices that, when applied to a live production system, results in a zero-downtime and low-risk release of software updates[cite O'reilly here Continuous Delivery: Reliable Software Releases Through Build, Test, and Deployment Automation].  The terms *blue* and *green* are abstract labels that differentiate between the two identical production environments—one representing the starting state (in this case blue) and one representing the next state (in this case green). They are chosen to remove any bias that one is correct, better, or the natural destination. We could have chosen green to represent our starting state as well—the color implies nothing.
```

> The basic pattern is that you take a live production system, which is in your starting state, let's call it blue, and split that into two identical environments: one blue, one green. The terms *blue* and *green* are abstract labels that differentiate between the two identical production environments—one representing the starting state (in this case blue) and one representing the next state (in this case green). They are chosen to remove any bias that one is correct, better, or the natural destination. We could have chosen green to represent our starting state as well—the color implies nothing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

After splitting the scenario into two identical environments, traffic is routed to the starting environment, which in this case is blue. Next, you introduce changes into what will be the next environment, or green environment, which is currently not serving traffic, and test those changes in isolation from the blue environment. After the changes are deemed to be stable, you begin routing traffic over to the green environment. If something goes wrong, you can always direct traffic back to the blue environment. After the green environment is stably serving all the traffic, you update the blue to green and the whole system will be in the next state and once again be the same color: in this case all green.

In general, this pattern can be applied anywhere you can split a production scenario into two identical but isolatable environments, whether two complete identical replicas throughout the stack, just two virtual machines at the application layer using the same DB, or even two different regions of a single distributed database.

> By initially upgrading only an initial portion of the system, we can avoid maintenance downtime, improve testing, provide the potential for rollback, and most importantly relieve pressure from these operations, thus improving outcomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By initially upgrading only a controlled portion of the system, we can avoid maintenance downtime, improve testing, provide the potential for rollback, and most importantly relieve pressure from these operations, thus improving outcomes.
```
